# PRECISION clonality paper

breakclone R package and scripts used in the analysis performed for the PRECISION clonality paper. 

Directory structure
--------------------

* `breakclone` - R package to assess clonality of tumour pairs.
* `analysis` - Scripts used in the analysis.

Analysis
--------

This directory contains the following scripts used in the analysis:

### Copy Number analysis related scripts:

* `plotSegs.R` R function which takes as an input a QDNAseq object and plots the copy number profile of an specific sample.
* `exportSharedBreaks.R` R function which takes as an input a segment table generated by the `breakclone::readAlleleSpecific` or `breakclone::readVCFCn` functions and exports shared breakpoints for a pair of samples.
* `plotClonality.R` R function which takes as an input directory to shared breakpoints exported by `exportSharedBreaks.R`, a segment table generated by the `breakclone::readAlleleSpecific` or `breakclone::readVCFCn` functions and additional details for each sample (relatedness verdict, clonality score...) and plots a stacked barplot of total, shared and non-shared breakpoints and breakclone score per sample for copy number data.
* `HeatmapCNPairs.R` R function which takes as an input directory to shared breakpoints exported by `exportSharedBreaks.R` and a call score copy number matrix for a pair of samples and plots a copy number heatmap with shared breakpoints and copy number bar. 


### Mutation related scripts:

* `make_oncoPrint.R` takes as an input table of mutations and outputs statistical analysis of number of mutations for all genes in the panel and plots oncoPrint.
